In an on-path attack (previously known as a man-in-the-middle [MITM] attack), an attacker places himself or herself in-line between two devices or individuals that are communicating in order to eavesdrop (that is, steal sensitive data) or manipulate the data being transferred (such as by performing data corruption or data modification). 
On-path attacks can happen at Layer 2 or Layer 3.

ARP Spoofing and ARP Cache Poisoning

ARP cache poisoning (also known as ARP spoofing) is an example of an attack that leads to an on-path attack scenario. 
An ARP spoofing attack can target hosts, switches, and routers connected to a Layer 2 network by poisoning the ARP caches of systems connected to the subnet and intercepting traffic intended for other hosts on the subnet. In Figure 5-5, the attacker spoofs Layer 2 MAC addresses to make the victim believe that the Layer 2 address of the attacker is the Layer 2 address of its default gateway (10.2.3.4). 
The packets that are supposed to go to the default gateway are forwarded by the switch to the Layer 2 address of the attacker on the same network. The attacker can forward the IP packets to the correct destination in order to allow the client to access the web server (10.2.66.77).

Media Access Control (MAC) spoofing is an attack in which a threat actor impersonates the MAC address of another device (typically an infrastructure device such as a router). 
The MAC address is typically a hard-coded address on a network interface controller. In virtual environments, the MAC address could be a virtual address (that is, not assigned to a physical adapter). An attacker could spoof the MAC address of physical or virtual systems to either circumvent access control measures or perform an on-path attack.

NOTE: A common mitigation for ARP cache poisoning attacks is to use Dynamic Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) Inspection (DAI) on switches to prevent spoofing of the Layer 2 addresses.


Another example of a Layer 2 on-path attack involves placing a switch in the network and manipulating Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) to make it the root switch. This type of attack can allow an attacker to see any traffic that needs to be sent through the root switch.

An attacker can carry out an on-path attack at Layer 3 by placing a rogue router on the network and then tricking the other routers into believing that this new router has a better path than other routers. 
It is also possible to perform an on-path attack by compromising the victim’s system and installing malware that can intercept the packets sent by the victim. 
The malware can capture packets before they are encrypted if the victim is using SSL/TLS/HTTPS or any other mechanism. 
An attack tool called SSLStrip uses on-path functionality to transparently look at HTTPS traffic, hijack it, and return non-encrypted HTTP links to the user in response. 
This tool was created by a security researcher called Moxie Marlinspike. You can download the tool from https://github.com/moxie0/sslstrip.

The following are some additional Layer 2 security best practices for securing your infrastructure:

Select an unused VLAN (other than VLAN 1) and use it as the native VLAN for all your trunks. Do not use this native VLAN for any of your enabled access ports. Avoid using VLAN 1 anywhere because it is the default.
Administratively configure switch ports as access ports so that users cannot negotiate a trunk; also disable the negotiation of trunking (that is, do not allow Dynamic Trunking Protocol [DTP]).
Limit the number of MAC addresses learned on a given port by using the port security feature.
Control Spanning Tree to stop users or unknown devices from manipulating it. You can do so by using the BPDU Guard and Root Guard features.
Turn off Cisco Discovery Protocol (CDP) on ports facing untrusted or unknown networks that do not require CDP for anything positive. (CDP operates at Layer 2 and might provide attackers information you would rather not disclose.)
On a new switch, shut down all ports and assign them to a VLAN that is not used for anything other than a parking lot. Then bring up the ports and assign correct VLANs as the ports are allocated and needed.
Use Root Guard to control which ports are not allowed to become root ports to remote switches.
Use DAI.
Use IP Source Guard to prevent spoofing of Layer 3 information by hosts.
Implement 802.1X when possible to authenticate and authorize users before allowing them to communicate to the rest of the network.
Use Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) snooping to prevent rogue DHCP servers from impacting the network.
Use storm control to limit the amount of broadcast or multicast traffic flowing through a switch. An attacker could perform a packet storm (or broadcast storm) attack to cause a DoS condition. The attacker does this by sending excessive transmissions of IP packets (often broadcast traffic) in a network.
Deploy access control lists (ACLs), such as Layer 3 and Layer 2 ACLs, for traffic control and policy enforcement.
